Well come back.
And this lesson we're going to look at while loops.
So we saw earlier that the do while loop and what happens with the do while loop is that the statement
is done before the expression.
So we got this statement over here and we always run through this statement at least one time.
So there was no escape for it.
And even when the value of that answer that we had the prompt was not a number it would still always
run through once and then it would realize that condition is not met.
So the while loop is going to be slightly different.
So we need to include for all of the loops we always need to have those seem three parts to it.
So we need to have an increment so that a way that it's actually changing.
We also need to have an initial value.
So the starting point for the loop.
And then over here we also need to have a condition that's meant to give the ability to actually break
out of the loop.
So let's set that up again and this time we're just going to use the while loop so we can get rid of
some of this information here.
And if we're using that number.
So this is where we enter in the code that's going to run through here and there is going to be a difference
to the way that the code is being output.
So we see that the condition is over here.
Our STARTING POINT OF X is zero and we need to increment X by 1.
So this gives us our way out of our loop and eventually this condition will no longer be true.
And that's when the loop is going to break.
So let's put some content so put in her age 2 now and we'll add to the existing Internet age to melt.
So it's going to look a lot like what we had before value of x is equal to.
And then let's put the value of x
and then we'll do a line break.
So let's see what happens.
So going over here rumor again that we're starting with X incrementing it.
So if we place this increment after this which will typically make more sense let's do it that way.
So this time let's increment X after we've actually run through it and then let's also do that final
output of x
so final value of x firehall value of X is going to be equal to whatever the value X is leaving the
loop.
So let's see what happens.
We refreshed it and we're starting at zero.
We're looping through and we see that we do still do that increment and then we break out of the loop.
So this is slightly different because previously what we are doing the do while loop.
We saw that even we had the prompt that we still ended up looping through all of the values.
So let's recreate that but this time within the while loop.
So remember we had a prompt We were asking how many times that we want to loop through.
And then we were looping through the number whatever was being returned and the answer.
So let's pause the video.
Open up your editor and in that prompt asking for how many times you want to loop through here and then
we're going to do relatively the same thing we did for the do while the.
So now let me show you the answer here.
So we're going to do the same thing that we did before what we're doing prompt we're going to ask how
many times should I lose.
So that's the question I ask you.
How many times that we need to loop.
And we saw earlier that we can just put the answer in there.
So that will give us a breaking point to get out of the loop and also maybe we can start at 1.
So we know that the first time going through there it's going to hit one and then we'll leave that final
value of x.
So let's see what happens.
So we can ask the question how many times should we loop.
So let's say seven.
And so we see what's happened here is that we're starting at 1.
So we go through and we see that X is less than 1.
So that condition is true.
So it puts one then X is less than or I should say X is less than 7.
So it outputs that X is less than 7 again and it can be used to output it.
And at this point it's already gone through there.
It's I put it.
So I put the 6 and now x is 7 so that it's got to stop executing the code.
So let's go through here again and let's put in something that's not a number.
And basically it doesn't actually loop through X so X did not change.
So this is the big difference between the while loop and the do while loop.
So if you want an opportunity to run through the code that's sitting in here then you can go ahead and
use the do while loop.
Otherwise use the while loop because this code won't get executed.
If this condition is not met.
So now it's time for a challenge.
So we saw that both of these loops works slightly differently.
So let's have a more interesting challenge.
So let's say that we're going to create a secret password.
And what I want to happen is I want this loop to continuously prompt the user until he actually gets
the password.
And that's where the loop is going to break.
So this is going to be slightly different.
We're not actually going to have to set a number because the way out of the loop is the condition for
the loop that it's actually going to break out of it is going to be once we get the correct answer.
So go ahead.
Open up your editor and try that out.
So you know that we do need to set a super password so he can make that anything that you want and I'm
actually going to make mine.
Javascript so you can do the same if you want.
So set up a variable create that secret password and then put the prompt inside the while loop and then
do a condition to check to see if the user guessed correctly.
So open up your editor try that out and I'll show you a solution coming up.
OK so I hope you had an opportunity to try this out.
And so let's update the code for an answer to this.
So look for an answer to our challenge.
So call it secret and let's do a word Zionistic javascript.
I do all lowercase.
So we're not going to make it that difficult.
The user actually asked against the case as well.
So earlier we saw that we were using that variable or something a numeric number were looping through
till we broke out of the loop.
So if we're actually using a condition that is not numeric then we don't actually need to increment
the values.
So you get rid of that stuff there.
So next let's let's initiate this.
So we need a way to actually initiate and ask the user if if they give out what the secret word is and
the way that we're going to do this we're actually going to do this for us outside of the loop.
And then we're going to do one inside of the loop because if I do something inside the loop.
So let's say
crack code and we do something in here where we do a prompt.
The problem is that if we're looking to see if the crack code is equal to the secret
then we're never going to get to the point where we're doing the prompt unless the prompt is actually
sitting outside of the while and we can also have another one inside.
So let's let's set one up we're going to set a variable up and this variable is going to be called crack
code and this is going to be prompt.
So basically this is where we cannot set up that condition that we're going to loop through.
So probably I'm just going to say what is the secret word.
And the user comes in sees this prompt they enter something in the code.
And we're going to check to see if it's equal to secret.
But if it is a secret that's true.
And then we're going to run through the code so that doesn't make sense.
So let's set it to not be equal to secret and next we can say guess I guess.
So basically what's going to happen here is once
the user is presented first with a prompt asking for the secret were if it's not equal to the secret
where we're going to just ask them to guess again.
So we'll see how this works.
And we're going to be doing it within order.
So we know that.
Lastly we can say something like You guessed correct or we can simply have another condition over here.
So let's see how this works.
Before we add the final output and we'll just do something like that as a placeholder.
So let's try it.
So what is the secret word.
I'm going to put in test and it's good to say Guess again and guess again and guess again.
And I continuously have to guess.
And I'll never get to that output because it's going to continue within this loop.
So loops can go on and on and on until you actually get a way to break out of them.
So now when enter in this word this condition is no longer going to be true and we're going to be able
to continue with our script.
Let's see how that works.
So okay and we get the final output.
So the only way to continue is to actually get the word properly.
And if you do then you actually get to continue out and you get that final.
So let's try something else.
So what if we started here and he's already interested the right word.
It still works because of the fact that this statement is not true.
So it just ignores what's happening here.
And if we did this in a do while loop then it wouldn't ignore that prompt and it would mess things up.
So in this case if you do something like this where are you two and a guess a word there.
We know that in this scenario this works out perfectly because we can't continue we can't get to this
line of code unless we break out of the loop and the loop will continue until it gets the word that
we have provided.
So until we get that secret.
So the next lesson we're going to look at the most popular way to do loops and that's the for loop.
So that's coming up in the next lesson.